[Music]
ever tried sushi if yes
then you'll know it's usually wrapped in
a green slippery thing
also known as seaweed it's very popular
in asian cuisine
but people in other parts of the world
don't eat it much
here are some facts that will persuade
you to include it in your diet
number one it's good for your gut health
up to 75 percent of seaweed's dry weight
is pure fiber
and this is more than you can find in
most fruits and veggies
fiber helps your digestion by preventing
constipation
and making you feel fuller longer also
alginate a substance in brown seaweed
strengthens the gut mucus that covers
the gut wall
what's more seaweed contains particular
sugars that help
increase the growth of good bacteria and
produce short chain
fatty acids that nourish the cells
lining your gut
two it can help you lose weight
since seaweed is so rich in fiber eating
it can benefit those who are trying to
shed a few extra pounds
as i just said fiber slows down the
digestion of food
and that's why you'll feel full longer
this can reduce your calorie
intake besides fucoxanthin a pigment in
brown seaweed
might reduce body fat in a 2014 study at
newcastle university
participants ate bread with added
seaweed and it lowered their fat
absorption by a third three
it protects your body cells as you
probably know
free radicals are bad for your health
since they damage
cells cause illness and speed up aging
seaweed contains
not only the antioxidant vitamins a c
and e but also flavonoids and
carotenoids
that are also known for protecting your
body from free radicals
for example the already mentioned
fucoxanthin
which is carotenoid protects cell
membranes better than vitamin a
and works 13 times better as an
antioxidant than vitamin e
4. it gives you lots of vitamins and
minerals seaweed is rich in iron
copper riboflavin and many other
beneficial minerals
on top of that the protein found in
spirulina
and chlorella types of seaweed i'm going
to tell you
all about in just a bit has all the
essential amino acids
also there are omega-3 fats and vitamin
b12 in seaweed
so you can get much more useful
nutrients just by sprinkling a bit of it
on your food
5. it keeps your hormones in balance
seaweed is unique because it can absorb
large amounts of iodine from the ocean
and without this nutrient your thyroid
gland won't be able to produce certain
hormones
these hormones are very important for
controlling growth
level of energy and repairing damaged
cells in your body
if your body doesn't produce enough of
them you might experience
changes in weight constant tiredness or
neck swelling
6. it makes your heart stronger
high cholesterol is one of the main
causes of heart problems
luckily seaweed can reduce its level
also there are carbohydrates called
foucans in seaweed that prevent blood
from excessive clotting
which is also dangerous for your heart
studies even found that fookins can be
as effective as blood thinners
seven it keeps your blood sugar level in
check
and again i have to talk about that
pigment fucoxanthin
japanese scientists found out that it
might improve blood sugar control
this substance turned out to be
especially beneficial for people
who have genetic insulin resistance and
are more likely to have issues with high
blood sugar
there's also evidence that a substance
in seaweed called
alginate lowers the absorption of sugar
into the bloodstream
eight it can make your hair better
seaweed is packed with collagen
which is responsible for hair recovery
and even thickness
on top of that vitamin a and c and zinc
which you can find in some types of
seaweed can help your mane
grow faster do you know any other foods
that can help with hair
growth let me know down in the comments
number nine it helps you eat healthier
let's agree on the fact that having
seaweed with a burger or french fries
seems strange
it goes much better with vegetable stews
tofu
salads and stir fries so by adding
seaweed to your diet
you'll simply have to choose food that
your body will thank you for
now i'm sure you're planning to head to
the nearest supermarket
and pack your fridge with seaweed but
before you do
you shouldn't forget that too much of a
good thing is a bad thing
and this ingredient is no exception as
you already know
seaweed is high in iodine but the daily
intake of this mineral
shouldn't be more than just 1.1 grams
for adults
if your body gets more than that your
thyroid gland might get bigger
also it can cause vomiting nausea
diarrhea
and even skin problems if you take any
blood thinning medications
you should avoid eating the types of
seaweed that are rich in vitamin k
this vitamin might make the medications
less effective
if you had kidney problems you might
experience nausea and weakness
since high levels of potassium and
seaweed can't be removed from your body
naturally
all in all you should consult your
doctor before adding seaweed to your
diet
to make sure your body can handle it the
doctor will tell you how much seaweed
you can eat daily
without having any side effects okay
finally it's time to talk about
different types of seaweed
there are seven common edible varieties
oganori this type is also called sea
moss
it has a dark purple color and it's
usually either pickled or used in salads
this ingredient is also popular in the
caribbean and
in hawaii where they put it in pokeballs
besides organori is used for the
production of agar agar
which is a vegan friendly counterpart of
gelatin
you can get organory and dried strips or
powder
and make jellies puddings and custards
with it
kombu you can get this brown seaweed in
dry
wide strips the japanese use it as a
seasoning for sushi
and as the main ingredient of a clear
but flavorful stock called dashi
if you find it in powdered form then you
can make yourself a cup of the trendy
japanese tea
kombucha nori
the most recognizable type usually comes
pressed into thin
dried sheets of dark green or black
color
it's used to make sushi rolls or as a
snack
dried or toasted nori sheets can easily
become
soft and mushy from moisture in the air
that's why it's better to store them in
airtight containers
wakami this seaweed is a bit sweet and
has a silky texture
that's why it's perfect for salads it's
also one
of the main ingredients of miso soup
wakami is mostly sold dried and salted
in vacuum packs
but keep in mind that it expands greatly
in size during cooking
and if you overcook it its texture will
get slimy
dulce this one looks a lot like red
cabbage and is pretty unique because it
tastes like
bacon it was first grown by researchers
at oregon state university in 2015.
since then several small farms have been
successfully cultivating it
the seaweed not only gets a meaty flavor
when cooked
but also has double the nutritional
value of kale
normally it comes in dried or holy form
and sometimes in powder or seasoning mix
sea lettuce dark green and leafy
it's perfect in its raw form for soups
and salads
but if you decide to cook it don't
overdo it or you might end up with a
slightly bitter taste
the easiest way to make your fave dish
more interesting
is to simply sprinkle cut up leaves of
sea lettuce
on top umi budo
it's also called sea grapes and one of
the few seaweed types that are sold
fresh
umibutto is a long stem with tiny
clusters of bubble-like leaves
when you eat it the clusters burst in
your mouth just like caviar
i bet you've got only one question now
how can i actually add it to my usual
dishes
well here are some super easy recipes to
help you out
seaweed mayo just add any powdered
seaweed to your regular mayo and stir
well
now you have a healthier alternative to
your usual spread and dips
it tastes great on sandwiches and with
chips
seaweed smoothie you'll need one
tablespoon of dried wakami seaweed
one tablespoon of flax seed one chopped
frozen banana
one chopped apple and a cup of almond
milk
you can also add a few scoops of vanilla
protein powder
blend all the ingredients together and
enjoy
oatmeal with seaweed take a saucepan
and heat butter in it then add oats and
cook until they're golden
after that add 2 cups of water and put
the lid on
when the water boils bring the heat to
low and cook for 10 to 15 minutes
until the oats get tender when it's
ready
drizzle it with soy sauce sesame oil
sesame seeds
chopped spring onion and parsley in the
end
crush one toasted nori sheet on top of
the dish
well i'm hungry now how about you